# Collaborative Page

This website is what I call a "collaborative page." I will explain what that is
and why I find it so wonderful here.

## Collaboration in Open Source Software

As an interested software developer, over time you discover a fascinating world
of technology that has been developed for collaborating on software source code.
For example, hundreds of people work together to develop the Linux operating
system. Thousands of individuals have developed software components for
JavaScript applications and release them for free and open use on the platform
[npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/). These people also collaborate continuously,
assisting each other with contributions to their projects. There are no bosses,
shareholders, or government forcing people to do this work or organizing their
work\*. There are no video conferences, daily meetings, or sprints. The people
themselves decide what work is done and when to do it. The results are utilized
when they are good. Communication and coordination occur publicly and in
writing, mostly through the platform [github](https://github.com/).

## Collaboration first

I love this way of collaboration so much that I'm often frustrated now when I
have to work on projects that haven't discovered this approach yet. It could be
my clients who believe that hours of video calls with 20 people positively
influence projects. But most of the time, it's projects that have nothing to do
with software.

Then there are local governments sitting on a wealth of interesting data and
having the resources and permissions to provide great online services and
information to citizens. But instead of enabling all citizens to use this data
and encouraging their voluntary participation in improving the information and
services, the data and documents are hidden or locked in proprietary databases.

There are parents at kindergartens or members of clubs, people in the village
with fantastic ideas. But everyone works independently, using separate systems,
incompatible data structures, and processes that others don't understand.

I'm working to make more people ensure that collaboration is always possible in
their work. This involves choosing open standards, publishing and documenting
their work publicly, and working in version-control-compatible formats (like
Markdown instead of Microsoft Word). I firmly believe that through such a way of
working, we can unlock tremendous potential for our society and humanity as a
whole.

## Collaborative Pages

In this spirit, I operate collaborative pages whose source code and content are
publicly accessible. This means that anyone with a little bit of understanding
can make suggestions about changing, deleting, or adding content to the
homepage. I run such pages for myself [here](https://www.levinkeller.de), for
the [village of RÃ¶ssing](https://www.roessing.de) where I live, and I'm also
trying to establish them in the associations I'm active in. Of course, it's a
challenge for people to adapt to this new type of tools, but more importantly,
the mindset and way of working. And it requires a lot of trust in people like me
to believe that the learning curve is justified. I hope very much that I can
build this trust and step by step convince more people to shape the future in
this way. If you're feeling inspired to join in and explore this wonderful new
world of collaboration, why not give it a try right here?

- Found an error? Correct it by opening a pull request for
  [this page](https://github.com/levino/levinkeller.de/tree/main/docs/software/collaborative-homepage.md).
- Have a fantastic idea for a new post I should write? Create an issue (task) in
  the
  [GitHub repository for this page](https://github.com/levino/levinkeller.de/issues).
- Want to write a post yourself? Create a pull request with the page you'd like
  me to add.
- Need assistance and tips for creating your own collaborative page? Send me an
  email, and I'll see how I can help you help yourself.

Through it all, I wish you immense joy!

_\*To stay accurate, it must be acknowledged that there are now numerous
companies that pay employees to work on open-source projects. A good example of
this is Meta, who develop software like [React](https://react.dev/). However,
even this work largely takes place publicly, and many parts of the application
have been developed by independent third parties and have been incorporated into
the source code through
[Pull Requests](https://docs.github.com/de/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests)._
